In this lecture we will learn about layouts an HMO m HDMI has a group of elements known as lay out elements
that are used for displaying multiple columns of content in a web browser similar to what we looked
at in our tables lecture with headers and footers.
We can also give a web page layout a header and footer the header tag allows us to give a header to
our layout.
We will start with an opening header tag.
Then we will specify the H one heading tag.
Then the text for the header followed by a closing H-1 tag and finally a closing header tag.
Let's go to the web browser and run this code to see the header We just added to the web page
then we will go back to the editor the footer tag allows us to give a footer to our layout.
We will add an opening footer tag the text for our footer and then a closing footer tag.
Let's go back to the web browser and drag our team else file over to run our code.
Now we will go back to the editor and look at another example we can group our links using nav tag which
serves as a container for our navigation links.
We will start out with an opening nav tag followed by anchor elements and then a closing tag.
In this case I will add three anchor elements one that links to Google one that links to Yahoo and one
that links to ask dot com.
We separate these anchor tags with the oar symbol which is the vertical line character.
Once we have typed all the code for this example we all go to the browser and run our HMO.
We can click on the links and they will point to the Web sites that we specified.
Let's jump back to the editor.
This tag is best to use in our lay out around a large block of links.
We don't need to put all of our links inside of our NAV element.
We can use the section tag to add a section to our lay out this tag is convenient for grouping sections
of content on our Web page for this example.
We will add an opening section tag followed by an H2 element a paragraph element and then a closing
section tag.
Once we have typed this code we will go to the browser and we're on it we can see our heading and content
that we grouped together using the section tag displayed on our Web page.
Let's go back to the editor and look at another example.
The article tag is used for standalone content in our layout to know when to use the article tag.
Think about online articles.
If your content is a news snippet comment or blog post you will want to use this tag to surround your
content.
Use this tag when you have content that relates to your layouts main content but that you want to be
in its own container relative to the rest of your layout.
We will start with an opening article tag then and each 3 element followed by a paragraph element and
finally a closing article tag.
Then we will go to the web browser and run the code to see the result of what we just typed.
After that let's go back to the editor and look at another example.
Deicide tag allows us to add some content.
Aside from the main content of our layout you can use this to add a sidebar of related content to your
main content.
For this example we will start with an opening a side tag followed by an H for heading element.
Then a paragraph element for our side content and finally a closing aside tag.
Now we will go to the browser and write our code.
Let's go back to the editor.
The details tag allows us to specify additional details for our HDMI layout when used in addition to
the summary tag.
We can add the ability to show or hide the detail by clicking on a specified element.
Let's look at an example.
First we will put opening and closing details tags in our HDMI layout.
Next we will add an opening and closing summary tag any content we put inside of our summary element
will be the content that we can click on to show or hide the details.
Let's add a paragraph element with some text in it as our details to show and hide then we will go to
the web browser and run our code.
As you can see the result is that we can click on the summary element to show or hide the details.
We added to our layout
then we will jump back over to the editor.
Of course each of the layout elements that we cover in this lecture can be stylized independently using
the style tag and specifying the name of the layout element we want to apply certain styles to.
Let's take a look at an example to stylize the summary element we just added to our code a moment ago.
We can do the following.
We will add an opening style tag and then specify the summary element.
Then we will add an opening curly brace.
Specify the color property as green and then add a closing curly brace.
Finally we will add a closing style tag.
Then we will go to the web browser and drag the HVM file over to run our code.
In the next lecture we will learn about divs and spans in each team.